TODO:
    Color GAN:
        We build a tiny, lightweight and super simple GAN to generate color pallette given a short text.
        The GAN must be simple and lightweight.
        The loss of the generator in the current implementation drops instantly to 0, but the actual results look bad visually.

        Tasks:
            Suggest, one simple step to improve the GAN results.
            Avoid big architectures, complex loss functions, or any other complex changes.

        Note:
            Avoid L1 (or any other) reconstruction loss, the colors in the train set have large variance and many different colors can fit the same text.

        DEBUG:
            I want to debug the GAN.
            The settings right now is that the generator maps z -> colors and the discriminator maps colors -> real/fake.
            Training ends up with 0 loss for the generator, and high loss for the discriminator (much higher than random guess).
            This implies a bug in the discriminator or the train loop.
            Note that when examining the generated colors by hand they look bad (easy to distinguish from the real distribution), so the generator is not doing a good job.

            Please check the code and try to find the root cause.
            If you can't find the root cause, suggest a simple way to debug the GAN and find the root cause.

        NEXT STEPS:
            The model now has 2 tasks:
                1. Predict the feeling
                2. Generate a color palette

            Notes:
                - We use a common text encoder for both tasks.
                - The feeling head is the one who send gradient to the text encoder.
                - gen and tst just use the text encoding but do not send gradient to the text encoder.

            Tasks:
                - Connect the feeling head and add it to the train loop.
                - Log the feeling loss, the feeling acc and feeling acc @ 5.
                - Make the gen and tst conditional on the encoded text. gen is also conditional on z (random noise)

        NEXT STEPS:
            - Save the model with the best feeling acc @ 5.
            - Add early stopping to the training loop (acc @ 5).

        NEXT STEPS:
            Also wire the EmojiHead:
                - Emoji head outputs an emoji embedding and uses in batch InfoNCE loss to train the text encoder (see older commits).
                - log emoji acc @ 10
                - log also f1 score on feeling acc @5 and emoji acc @10 to the early stopping criteria.

            Notes:
                - All was already implemented in older commits.
                - Recover it to the new code.
                - Use the new code style and structure and make minimal edits to the new code.

        NEXT STEPS:
            - Extract the training loop from the model.py file to train.py
            - Extract all configuration constants to config.py
            - Recover the tensorboard naming convention from older commits where the name was derived from the timestamp + config in config.py.

            Notes:
                - Do not export the web app or anything related to it.
                - Do not export onnx model at this point.

        NEXT STEPS:
            - Update the GAN, condition on the emoji embedding instead of the text encoding, hold on if you think this is a bad call.

        DISCUSSIONS:
            1.  Should we first train the model (feeling + emoji) then train the GAN on a frozen model? What would it take code wise?
            2.  Before conditioned the ColorGen on the text encoding it generated beautiful and diverse color pallettes (but unrelated to text).
                After conditioning on the text encoding it generates monotone color pallettes that are not diverse at all.
                You can see examples at:
                    file:///home/gilad/Work/emojic/report/preview/pred-09-01-15:31.html (before)
                    file:///home/gilad/Work/emojic/report/preview/pred-09-01-15:55.html (after)

                What can we do about it? How can we increase the capacity of the generator.

        NEXT STEPS:
            Reenable the web page:
            - Create a script onnx.py that loads all the exported .pt models and exports them to onnx.
            - Adjust the web app to use the new architecture.
            - Emojis and Feeling bars stay the same (or almost the same)
            - Colors bar need to sample from the GAN 5 times.

        DATA QUALITY:
            - It seems that there isn't enough emoji coverage, like basic items, objects, nouns, etc..
            - We should check again the bun/data/train.ts prompt to understand if the core problem is there.
            - If it seems fine, the plan is to get more data, then export top 200 emojis to labels.json then upsample rare emojis.
            - we already have a script emoji2feelings.ts that should upsample but it might be outdated, please check it and change its name to upsample-emojis.ts.
            - e.g. for the text "I want to watch TV" I get the following emojis "🚶0.42🥰0.42👀0.40🙂0.37👋0.37❤️0.36🤔0.35🌟0.35🤝0.34💪0.33"
            - we also need to upsample feelings, check if the existing script feeling2emojis.ts is still relevant and change its name to upsample-feelings.ts.
            - finally, at some point we need a method to clean bad data, no need to implement yet, but maybe we should already add some metadata to the dataset so it can help us clean it later.

        TOOLS:
            Create a tool tools/data/preview-labels.ts
            The tool should read the labels.json file and generate a static html preview page with:
            - a grid of all the feelings and their corresponding style.
            - a grid of all the emojis.
            Design the page and the layout so the two grids always fill up the entire page (exactly)
            You should probably use grid layout for both emojis and feelings.
            Feeling cells should contain the name of the feeling and should have a wide aspect ratio.
            Emojis should be square.
            Use some padding but let the feeling and emojis take most of the space.
            The goal of this page is to let me review the content of the labels.json file in a single glance.

        DISCUSSION:
            When generating new data, do you think we can condition the text on a feeling and an emoji? Will 'openai/gpt-5.6-luna' handle this?
            If so, should we take this approach and replace both the emoji upsampling and the feeling upsampling scripts?

        Merge Existing feelings:
            The goal is to reduce the number of feelings to 30 and merge existing feelings with high similarity.
            Merging plan:
            1. propose how to merge the feelings.
            2. write a report report/merge/<timestamp>.md about the feeling distribution after the merge.
            3. If we decide to merge do not use alias map, instead update the feeling label, but keep the original feeling in the meta field.

        Feelings:
            Look at all the feelings that we have in the train.jsonl and make a list of feelings you think I should use.
            Do not consider existing frequency or anything else, just make a list (any length) that you think is a complete list:
            - No two feelings that are too similar 
            - No missing feelings.

            Write it to report/feelings/<timestamp>.md.

        Color GAN:
            We must replace the emoji embedding passed to the ColorGen with the text embedding instead.
            Make sure the train and inference code are all updated to reflect this change.
            Also make sure the onnx export code is updated to reflect this change.

        Ekman's six 
            We should go with Ekman's six basic emotions (anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness, surprise) + Neutral.
            Write a detailed report how this migration affect the product (model, web app, data, etc...)
            Especially, consider what should we do with all the existing data that we have.
            The report should be written to report/ekman/<timestamp>.md.
            The report must contains a practical, high level plan to migrate the existing project to Ekman's six basic emotions + Neutral.

        Implement The Migration:
            Implement according to the report you wrote at report/ekman/09-02-01:10.md
            Implement Phase 1 and 2.
            Then report and wait for me to run the upsampling scripts before rebuilding the eval.jsonl set (Phase 4)
            

            Comments:
                Important:
                - Feeling metric is now acc @ 1, that is correct.
                - Do not weight the classes in the nn.CrossEntropyLoss() loss, we will balance the classes by either upsampling or downsampling the data.
                - Design premise: make sure every feeling has a truly unique and distinct style.
                - Use Deterministic fold to map the existing data into the new feelings, remove the metadata field.
                - Drop feelings that are not clearly mapped to the new feelings.
                - No META field in the new data at all, remove it from the pipeline completely.
                - During the migration deduplicate text based on its normalized form, pick one of the annotations and drop the rest.
                - Rebuild eval.json as per the existing skill. eval.jsonl must be flawless and top quality set.
                - Use the canonical strings (Angry, Disgusted, Afraid, Happy, Sad, Surprised, Neutral).

                Minor:
                - Your information about the Colour GAN is a bit out-dated but does not affect the migration.

        Upsampling:
            Update the upsampling feelings script to include topics that will steer the generated text towards certain classes of emojis.
            The goal is to avoid too many emoji faces and to add miss-covered classes like objects, animals, plants, etc...
            When annotating using topics add a {topic} field to the data (it is fine that existing records do not have this field.)

        Fail Analysis:
            Create a tool tools/analysis/fails.ts that run the trained model on the eval.jsonl set and generate a report of the fails.
            List all the failed records ordered by the model error.

        DATA CLEANUP:
            There are too many garbage records in the data, most of them have some kind of face emoji.
            We need to analyze the data understand the problem and the cause and come up with a plan to clean it up.

        Multi Label Classification:
            I think that we should have multiple emojis per record and treat the problem as a multi class multi label classification.
            Each record can have an arbitrary number of emojis that are strongly associated with the text.
            So for example for a text like "I love this dog" both love and dog emojis are fine.
            
            Write a detailed plan:
                1. Data analysis and problems.
                2. Data re-annotation.
                3. Model architecture.
                4. Anything else you think is relevant.

        Comments:
            We must make the annotation process efficient (time wise and token wise) to achieve this i suggest:
                - Skip the color palette, we already have them.
                - Consider have the emojis as a single string (your call, maybe we should compare efficiency of single string vs emoji array)
                - snapshot the data into data.jsonl
                - consider a heuristic to sort the snapshot data.jsonl by the most relevant records, e.g. I would push to the end face emojis?
                - Important: replace feeling with style, make a list of at least 20 or more styles, treat as multi-label as well so the annotator needs to return {emojis: [], styles: []} for each record.
                - Styles are a closed set, let the annotator know about that.
                - 2 options for annotation format, either {emojis:[], styles: []} or {emojis:'', styles: []} (I think the second one might be more efficient time wise and token wise but the first option is fine too, choose whichever you think is the better choice)
                - FeelingHead -> StyleHead, and should output embedding as well.
                - With the multi-label approach I think we can generate the eval.jsonl simply by sampling the train.jsonl. We can have, independently, a data quality skill that sample the train.jsonl and identify labeling and other issues.

                Discussion:
                    - Should we keep the emoji embedding normalized? I tend to keep it un-normalized so we can derived independent probability for each emoji, what do you think?
                    - Same for the StyleHead.

                Important:
                    - Before we start we must come up with the list of styles.
                    - We must avoid too many face emojis in the data, lets try a first re-annotation batch and analyze the results.
                    - Emojis should cover a wide range of topics, objects, animals, nature, people, food, symbols

                Finally:
                    - When done implementing we need to re-organize all the data tools and skills, remove old tools and skills and update documentation and CLAUDE.md

        Tools:
            Create a tool tools/data/merge.ts
            The tool does the following:
                - Read eval.jsonl, train.jsonl and data.jsonl
                Deduplicate and Merge:
                    - Each normalized text is merged into a single record:
                        - record is merge into the first set it is found in in the following order:
                             1. eval.jsonl
                             2. train.jsonl 
                             3. data.jsonl
                        - The merged record contains the union of all emojis and styles from all the records that were merged into it.
                        - After the merge there is exactly one record with the normalized text.

        Metrics:
            I only care about AP@10 for emojis and AP@5 for styles (normalized to min(emoji/style count, 10)).
            Explain to me in simple words what exactly you plan to do before implementing.

        Emoji Test:
            - generate a list of 100 words and their corresponding emojis (from the labels.json) into words.json
            - create a test script test_emoji.py that loads the model and runs it on words.json and generates a report of the results.
            - generate a report report/test-emoji/<timestamp>.md with the results.
            - this is a pure python script, no skills etc...
            - export the test function and run it after each training (just call it from the train.py script)
            - also possible to run it `uv run test_emoji.py`

        TOOLS: 
            Create a tool tools/data/preview-lines.ts
            The tool generate an html page like the tools/data/preview.ts
            The only difference is the it reads a .jsonl lines from std so I can run:
            tail -10 train.jsonl | bun run tools/data/preview-lines.ts | xargs google-chrome

            If it is simple make the tools/data/preview.ts a universal tool that does both.


        TOOLS:
            update the tools/data/upsample-emojis.ts so --emoji accepts a list of space separated emojis.

        TOOLS: 
            1.  Update the test_emoji.py script so it also generates a report in .json format.
            2.  create a tool tools/data/upsample-emoji-test.ts that reads the .json report and upsample failed tests.
                The upsampling prompt should be similar to the prompt of the upsample-emoji but it should ask the text generator to generate a text with the keyword and the target emoji.
                Something like: 'generate .... with the word "bowl" that is associated with the emoji "🥣"...'
                The tool should generate 10 examples for each failed.
                Define (for now) failed if target emoji not in the top 5.

        TOOLS: 
            Create a tool that:
            1. Train the model on modal
            2. Run the test_emoji.py script and generate a report in .json format.
            3. Run the tools/data/upsample-emoji-test.ts tool to upsample
            Repeat the process until all tests pass (or until we reach a limit of N iterations).

        TOOLS:
            Update the loop_emoji.py script:
            If the goal (> 95% acc@5) has been reached then also run the train_gan.py locally otherwise show a detailed message where it is failing.

        PR:
            Under the pr folder create a remotion subfolder.
            Create a remotion template that shows an input field and the generated card.
            It should looks exactly like the web app but without the emoji/color/style bars.
            The animation shows a typewriter effect of a predefined text and the real time transformation of the card result, i.e. the card is updated in real time as the text is typed.
            You should also create a file pr/remotion/texts.txt with a predefined list of texts to be used in the remotion template.
            Choose texts that are interesting, engaging and show the capabilities of the model.
            Texts should be short and catchy.
            Use the real model to (pre)-generate the card results.
            Run the template on 3 examples you choose and generate the videos.
            Update the pr/pr.md file to note about the remotion subfolder.

        REMOTION:
            Update the remotion animation:
            1. Do not update the card as its typed, instead:
                - Start zoomed in on the input
                - Zoomed out as the text is typed
                - The card should show a loading indicator saying "emojifying... to the left of the text animate alternate emojis
                - After the text is typed and the pan out completed cross fade to the final card result.
            Comments:
                Use a nicer, bigger font for the text.
                Use a bit slower type writer effect.
                Use nicer background colors (maybe a soft gray brown gradient)
                Remove all the extra details from the animation such as char count, "too short" warning, model updated, etc... keep only the text, the card result and the "made with love".
                Use a bit (still vertical) wider aspect ratio to fit exactly the text, the card result and the footer.

        GAN:
            Auto Eval:
                Can we come up with a simple way to evaluate the generator quality?
                If so lets do it and add as a metric and an early stop to the train loop.

        ENERGY DISTANCE:
            During GAN training measure, log and early stop the model using the (unconditional) energy distance between the generated and real color distributions (in the okLAB color space).
            In addition, just log the energy distance between the generated and real color distributions for predefined texts based on keywords:
                - The energy distance is measured between the generated and real color distributions without using the embedded vector.
                - Keywords are stored in a file energy_keywords.txt, log the energy distance for each keyword.

        COLOR_TEST:
            In the spirit of our keyword test (test_emoji.py) we want to add a color test to the GAN generator.
            The test should pick a set of semantically meaningful colors from the eval.jsonl
            For each color collect all the texts that are associated with it and generate a report of the GAN generator performance on those colors.
            The report should be generated in both .html and .json format.
            The html report should list the accuracy of the GAN generator for each color and show a few examples of the generated colors.
            The json report should contain the accuracy of the GAN generator for each color and the color name.
            The .json file will be used to upsample texts for colors that the GAN generator is failing on (future work).

            Before you implement make I explained the task clearly, so explain to me in simple words what exactly you plan to do and how you plan to do it.

        COLOR_TEST:
            Update the color test to be similar to the energy distance we measure during training.
            Use the energy_keywords.txt file for keywords and measure the energy distance between gen <-> real and real <-> real 
            Use the train.jsonl file for the texts.
            The .html report should be the same, the only difference is that we group by keyword instead of color name and we measure the energy distance instead of accuracy.

            Let me know if you push back on this and explain why.

        Color Based Annotation:
            Write a tool tools/data/upsample-colors.ts
            The tool has a list of predefined color names (e.g. red, green, blue, yellow, etc...).
            The tools add new records to the data.jsonl file with extra field {color: <color name>}.
            
            Steps:
                1. pick a color name from the list
                2. ask the text generator to generate a text related to the color
                3. send to the annotator
                4. append to data.jsonl
            
            Notes:
                - No need to validate the results
                - save the record with an extra field {color: <color name>} so we can use it later for the color test.
                - design the prompt so the text is aligned with the existing texts in the data.jsonl, the only different is that it should be related to the color.
                - the text generator need to be instruct to avoid copy paste the name of the color into the text, instead it should be related to the color in a more subtle way.
                
                - e.g. 
                    - for the color "red" the text can be "I love the smell of roses in the morning" .
                    - for the color "black" the text can be "It was a dark and stormy night" .
                
                - The strategy to pick the color is not yet determined, so for now 2 options:
                    run just `tools/data/upsample-colors.ts` it will randomly pick a color from the list and generate a text for it.
                    run `tools/data/upsample-colors.ts --colors <space separated color names>` to generate the specific colors you want.

        Color Based Annotations Analysis:
            I want to check if there is a correlation between prompt color and the actual color label.
            Create a tool tools/data/color-analysis.ts that read all records with the {color} field and score the {bg} colors according to the target color.
            i.e. if the target color is "red" it scores how much the {bg} color is red, if the target color is "blue" it scores how much the {bg} color is blue, etc...
            Then generate a report about the correlation (and other metrics if needed) between the prompt color and the actual color label.

            For each record calculate mean/max color_similarity between the target color and the {bg} colors according to:
                def get_color_similarity(rgb1, rgb2):
                    # 1. Normalize RGB inputs (0-255) to range [0.0, 1.0]
                    c1 = np.array([[[x / 255.0 for x in rgb1]]])
                    c2 = np.array([[[x / 255.0 for x in rgb2]]])
                    
                    # 2. Convert to Oklab space
                    lab1 = rgb2oklab(c1)[0, 0]
                    lab2 = rgb2oklab(c2)[0, 0]
                    
                    # 3. Calculate Euclidean distance (ΔE_OK)
                    dist = np.linalg.norm(lab1 - lab2)
                    
                    # 4. Convert distance to 0 - 100% similarity score
                    similarity = max(0.0, 100.0 * (1.0 - (dist / 0.5)))
                    return round(similarity, 2)            

                Report avg similarity for both mean(sim(target, bg[0]), sim(target, bg[1])) and max(sim(target, bg[0]), sim(target, bg[1]))
                Also, for each color report similarity between target color and a random sample of records (same size as the target color records).
                i.e. for each color we have both the avg similarity for texts that were generated with that color and the avg similarity for a random sample of texts, so we can compare the two.


        Discussion:
            I want to reframe the emoji/style prediction as a retrieval problem instead of a multi label classification problem.
            Note that our data does not have a ranked lists of emojis and styles, it only has a binary labels.
            We only car about recall, specifically recall @ 1 and we do not care about the absolute "probability" we only care about the ordering of the predictions.
            i.e. positives should be ranked higher than negatives.

            Tell me what do you think, any push backs that you have and how it should be implemented.
            

        Tools:
            Update the tools/data/upsample-colors.ts:
            Add a flag --no-color-text
            When running with the flag the prompt instruct the generator to generate text that is implicit about the color, i.e. "red" -> "I love the smell of roses in the morning" instead of "I love the color red".
            When running without the flag, any text is fine, i.e. "red" -> "I love the red dress" is fine.

        Emoji/Style training:
            Ensure training is done using the Log-Sum-Exp InfoNCE loss.
            Log both MAP@10 and MRR@10 for emojis and MAP@5 and MRR@5 for styles.
            Use MRR as the criteria for early stopping and best model selection.

            After you finish run the train on modal and generate the report.

        CLAUDE.md:
            Please read the following, review the current CLAUDE.md and update it to reflect the current state of the project, the current architecture, the current data and the current training process.
            Make sure to ask me any questions you have about the project before you start editing the CLAUDE.md file.
            If you think there are mistakes in the following make sure to stop and discuss with me before you start editing the CLAUDE.md file.
            Also, if you think there are missing information in the following make sure to stop and discuss with me before you start editing the CLAUDE.md file.


            The goal of this project is to develop a deep learning model and a web app that turns a short text into an expressive card with a color palette, emojis and a style.
            The colors, emojis and style should be semantically aligned with the text.
            Emoji: 
                Currently a single emoji that is related to the text, this can be a keyword in the text, the general feeling of the text, or anything else about the text that is associated with the emoji.
            Style: 
                should convey the general style of the text, currently the style determines the font family and text (css) style of the card, but in the future it can also determine the layout, animation, etc...
            Colors: 
                there are 3 colors, 2 for the background gradient and 1 for the text color. Colors are also used to represent an aspect of the text, 
                e.g. "I like the smell of roses in the morning" -> "red" "It was a dark night" -> "black" etc...

            The current model architecture has the following components:
                - A common text encoder
                - An emoji projection head
                - A style projection head
                - A color generator (GAN) head

                Text Encoder:
                    Built from Conv1d layers, produce a vector embedding of the text.
                Emoji Head:
                    Project the text embedding to the emoji embedding space.
                Style Head:
                    Project the text embedding to the style embedding space.
                Color Generator:
                    A generative model that can sample colors from the conditional distribution P(colors | text embedding, z) where z is a random noise vector.

            Web App:
                When a user types a text, the model output a ranked list of emojis and styles.
                The web app shows the top 10 emojis and top 5 (4 on mobile) styles and let the user choose.
                The GAN is used to sample 5 (4 on mobile) color pallettes (equally ranked) from which the user can choose.
                The top emoji, style and the first color pallette are used to generate the initial card.
                The user can then select any combination of emoji, style and color pallette to change the appearance of the card.
                Keyboard shortcuts are available to quickly change the emoji, style and color pallette.

            Metrics:
                A mismatched emoji is the most jarring and annoying problem, so this is our top priority.
                Next is the color palette and lastly the style.
                Thus we care about the following metrics:
                    - Emoji: MRR@10, MAP@10, acc@1, acc@10
                    - Style: MRR@5, MAP@5, acc@1, acc@5
                    - Color: (conditional) Energy distance between the generated and real color distributions (in the okLAB color space).
                
                Note that each document can have zero or more matching emojis, at least one matching style and exactly one sample of color palette.
                While the color pallette should have a conditional distribution attached to it, 
                we currently only care about the global distance between the distribution of the generator and the real distribution.

            Data:
                Data is generated and annotated by an LLM.
                all records are kept in a single append-only file data.jsonl.
                Each record has the following fields:
                    - text: the short text
                    - emojis: a list of emojis that are associated with the text
                    - styles: a list of styles that are associated with the text
                    - bg: a list of 2 colors for the background gradient
                    - fg: a color for the text color
                
                Each record can have additional arbitrary fields, but the above fields are the only ones that are used by the model and the web app.
                Other fields can be used for analysis, debugging, etc...

                The data.jsonl file is used to generate 3 other files:
                    - train.jsonl: used for training the model
                    - eval.jsonl: used for evaluating the model
                    - labels.json: contains the list of emojis and styles we use.

                Note that train.jsonl and eval.jsonl are disjoint and are generated from data.jsonl using a random split.
                The list of styles is predefined and fixed.
                The list of emojis is generated by taking the top N emojis from the data.jsonl
                During training we only consider emojis from this list.
                We have several tools to upsample emojis, styles and colors in the data.jsonl file to improve the model performance.

            Training:
                We frame the problem of selecting emoji and style as a retrieval problem (where emojis and styles are the candidates and the text is the query).
                We use the Log-Sum-Exp InfoNCE loss to train the model.
                The GAN is trained separately using a standard GAN loss using a frozen text encoder (so the text encoder gradient is solely from the emoji and style heads).

                We train the emoji and style heads in a single loop as a multi-task learning problem.
                In the end of a training session we output:
                    - enc.pt: the text encoder
                    - emoji.pt: the emoji head
                    - style.pt: the style head

                GAN:
                    We train the GAN separately using a frozen text encoder.
                
                Currently, we train the multitask model on modal.com and the GAN on a local machine.

            Tests:
                -   We test the task model using a predefined list of words that are strongly associated with emojis.
                    This test should be run after each training session and the results should be logged to a report file.
                    We also have a loop tool that train -> test -> upsample -> train -> test until the model reaches a predefined goal or the number of iterations exceeds a limit.

                -   We should test the GAN using a similar approach. We use a heuristic to pick a list of texts that are strongly associated with colors:
                    e.g. running:
                    `rg -N sunset train.jsonl | shuf | head -50  | bun tools/data/preview.ts | xargs google-chrome`
                    confirms that the texts are strongly associated with a certain color pallette.
                    For each such subset we can calculate the energy distance between the GAN conditional distribution and the real conditional distribution.
                    We can also calculate the energy distance of the real data to itself as a baseline.
                    This test should run after each GAN training session and the results should be logged to a report file.
                    We should also create a loop tool that train -> test -> upsample -> train -> test until the model reaches a predefined goal or the number of iterations exceeds a limit.

            Current Status:
                -   The multitask model is mature enough and show reasonable, production ready results.
                    Its main problem is the emoji coverage and we plan to improve it.
                -   GAN produce nice distribution of colors but its conditional distribution is not good enough and we plan to improve it.



    Project Maintenance:
        I think there are several stale tools, skills and files.
        Scan the entire project and come up with a list of scripts, tools, files, and skills that are stale and can be removed.
        Confirm with me each one of them before removing.

    Emoji Test:
        Extend the emoji test with another 50 words, test the latest model and generate a report of the results.
        Tell mw what do you think.

    Report names:
        Currently all report names are of the form report/<report name>/<timestamp>.md
        where <timestamp> is of the form MM-DD-HH:MM.
        the usage of ":" in the name make the file name unclickable in the terminal, thus we need to change the timestamp format to MM-DD-HH-MM.
        update all current reports and update all tools that generate reports to use the new timestamp format.

    regen tool:
        update the regen tool to generate a balanced (emoji wise test/eval sets):
        the regen tool should do what it currently does but with one additional step:
        downsamples top emojis to be no more than 5X the frequency of the least frequent emoji in the set.

    Tools:
        Write a tool print_model_params.py that prints the number of parameters in each model and the total number of parameters in the entire model.


    Tools help:
        For python based tools use typer (https://typer.tiangolo.com/) to wrap the tool
        For typescript use cac or commander to wrap the tool.
        Make sure all tools supports the -h and --help flags


    Reports:
        Currently there are too many reports and report types.
        In addition it is almost impossible to link between a report to the model and configuration that generated it.
        A third problem is that reports are git tracked and are cloned to every git worktree
        Suggest a plan that:
        1. Will only keep the most relevant reports and remove the rest.
        2. Will link each report to the model and configuration that generated it.
        3. Possibly (need to discuss) stop tracking reports in git and instead generate them on demand from the model and configuration that generated it.

        One thing I changed my mind about is the git tracking:
            I do want to track any future reports in git but remove all existing reports from the git history.
            I want each report to be in its own folder with a meta.yml file.
            The meta.yml file just contains the metadata from the model .pt files and possibly additional metadata about the report itself.
            The name of the folder should be the timestamp (YY-MM-DD-HH-MM) of the report (unless you have a better idea)
            Future reports should be in 
            report
                - <report type>
                    - <timestamp>
                        - meta.yml
                        - report.md 


        Input Padding:
            Currently text padding is a learned embedding see PAD, PAD_IDX.
            I want to remove the padding embedding and mask it instead.
            mask should be done before the conv layers and before the max pooling layer.
            before the conv layer mask should zero out the embedding of the padding tokens.
            before the max pooling layer mask should set the padding tokens to -inf so they are not selected by the max pooling layer.

    
    Reports:
        Currently we have several types of reports, the goal is to unified them into a single report that covers all the important aspects of the project.
        The high level report structure:

        Data:
            - data.jsonl
            - train.jsonl
            - eval.jsonl
            - labels.json
            - data statistics (number of records, number of emojis, number of styles, etc...)
            - raise flags for imbalances and other data issues.

        Model:
            Emojis:
                - Evaluate the EmojiHead on the eval.jsonl and summarize the results in a report.
                - Evaluate the EmojiHead on a predefined set of keywords and summarize the results in a report.
            Styles:
                - Evaluate the StyleHead on the eval.jsonl and summarize the results in a report.

            Colors:
                - Calculate the energy distance between GAN and real data.
                - Calculate baseline energy distance between real data and itself.
                - Evaluate the GAN on color groups:
                    -   Scan the data.jsonl for all records with significant colors {bg}
                        Only search for a small set of predefined colors (e.g. red, green, blue)
                        Evaluate the model on each color group and:
                            calculate energy distance
                            calculate accuracy (this is the number of records where the generated color matches the real color group)

                - Evaluate the GAN on a predefined set of color names (i.e. feed the model with the name of the color and check that the bg colors are aligned with the color name)
                    -   Scan the data.jsonl for all records with significant colors {bg}


        Note:
            - This is the only type of report that we generate and keep.
            - Any additional future information that we generate must be added to this report structure.
            - There should be a single tool tools/report.py that generate the report. Remove any other report tools.
            - Keep the preview tools they are not reports and the previews are git ignored.
            - The report need to be generated in .html and .json format.
            - No more .md reports, only .html and .json
            - The above is just the high level structure, the details of each section is up to you to decide.
            - Each report should be linked to a specific commit with a specific model .pt files and configuration.
            - Make sure the report is in-depth but concise, every section should first present the bottom line in an easy to read (visual if possible) format.
                Details may follow but only if they are relevant and add value to the report.

        Tasks:
            1. Decide about the actual structure of the report, its main goal is to be the tool to help me decide about the next steps in the project:
                - Should I get more data? should I fix the data pipeline? which data to upsample? etc...
                - Should I increase the model capacity? Should I try different model architecture? etc...
                - Where are the failures of the model?
                - Which model components are working well and which are not?

            2. Generate a dummy report with the structure you propose and show it to me before you implement the actual report.

            We iterate on 1. and 2. until we are happy with the report structure and content.

            3. Implement the report generation tool and generate the report after each training session.
            4. Remove all other report generation tools and scripts, only keep the preview tools.
            5. Update the CLAUDE.md to reflect the new report structure and content.

            As a side effect of this task we should:
                - make a table with all the tools that we have 
                - the table:
                    | tool name | category | description | cli flags |

                - categories should be {data, report, preview, training, other}
                - Review the table and we should merge all the reporting tools into a single report tool.





        train.py: 
            Unified all training tasks into a single train.py script.
            train <model> [--local]
            model is one of {task, gan, all}
            default is to train on modal (for all models) and --local is to train on local machine (for all models).
            After you implement remove all other training scripts and tools, only keep train.py.
            Update CLAUDE.md
            Use typer and install in the current project so I can run directly 
            `train task --local` or `train gan` etc...
            If possible add commandline option autocomplete (should be for free when using typer).

        Update The regen script:
            run as bun tools/data/regen.ts --min-count 5 --max-count 50
            regen read data.jsonl and shuffle (in mem)
            then greedily add rows and keep track of the frequency of each emoji.
            when emoji reach max-count drops every record with that emoji.
            when done it exports to labels.json just the emojis that appear in at least min-count records.
            then random split to train.jsonl and eval.jsonl and export to those files.
            
            note that the number of emojis in the labels.json is dynamic.
            note when training the model we only consider emojis in the labels.json file.
            note set defaults 
                --min-count 100
                --max-count 500

            when regen.ts is done print a clear summary to the terminal.

        Update the tools/data/upsample-emojis.ts:
            run as 
                bun tools/data/upsample-emojis.ts --emojis <emoji1, emoji2, ...>
                bun tools/data/upsample-emojis.ts --min-rank 200 --max-rank 400
                bun tools/data/upsample-emojis.ts
                bun tools/data/upsample-emojis.ts --report

            First option just upsample the emojis in the list.
            Second option just read the data.jsonl and upsample all emojis that are ranked between min-rank and max-rank.
            Third option is an alias for the second option with min-rank=200 and max-rank=400.
            Fourth option reads the latest report .json file and upsample all emojis that are failing the test (i.e. not in the top 5).

            All options have optional args [--per 20] which is the number of examples to generate for each emoji.



        Update the tools/report.py:
            Data:
                add full normalized text length distribution, vertical bar charts, order by length desc
            Emojis:
                Update the Distinct emojis row:
                    in labels.json / eval.jsonl / train.jsonl / data.jsonl



        Organize Project Structure:
            move all model related .py files into a `model` subfolder.
            move all tooling scripts (both .py and .ts) into a `tools` subfolder.
            move all .pt files into a `pt` subfolder (make sure to generate them directly into the `pt` subfolder).
            move all data files into a `data` subfolder (make sure to generate them directly into the `data` subfolder).

            Create a files.py file at the root folder that contains all the (relevant)file paths and names used in the project.
            Create a files.ts file at the root folder that contains all the (relevant)file paths and names used in the project.

            Make sure all references to the files in the project are updated to use the new paths and names.

            Before you implement print the new project structure tree and wait for my approval before.



        Keywords Generation Skill:
            Create a skill that:
                Reads labels.json and generates a file keywords.json with a list of keywords for each emoji.
                The skill should:
                    Iterate over each emoji and generate a list of keywords that are strongly associated with the emoji.
                    e.g.
                    {
                        '🚀': ['rocket'],
                        '🥣': ['bowl', 'soup'],
                        '🐕': ['dog'],
                        '🐶': ['dog']
                    }

                    After generating keywords for each emoji, transpose the dictionary:
                    {
                        'rocket': ['🚀'],
                        'bowl': ['🥣'],
                        'soup': ['🥣'],
                        'dog': ['🐕', '🐶']
                    }

                    And save the transposed dictionary to keywords.json.
                    

